# Facts about the HP 82240A printer
## Paper and Print head
* One line (head movement) has 166 columns and is 8 pixels high.
* Lines are printed directly adjacent, i.e. in graphics mode, 100% of the paper can be covered
* One character box is 5x8 dots. Usually the bottom row is not filled, so that the rows look separated.
* Some characters use the bottom row, e.g. "g" or other chars with descenders.
* Left and right of a character a blank column is printed, except left- and rightmost column.
* 24 chars fit on a line (22 times 7 plus 2 times 6).
* Underline mode fills the bottom row, no matter what (also space between chars and graphics mode).
* Double wide prints each column twice, no matter what (chars, space between chars, graphics bytes)
* 12 double wide chars fit on one line (10 times 14 plus 2 times 12), leaving two pixels empty at the end

### Questions
* Can the 2 pixels be filled after 12 double wide chars?
* If 2 pixels are inserted in-between, will the last char print or overflow?
* Will a char overflow in total, or will it be vertically split?

## Buffer
* Print buffer is 200 bytes
* Printing will start (and the buffer starts to drain) when a line feed is received
* After max. 1.8 seconds the line is printed and the buffer for the line is empty
* Once the buffer overflows, this happens:
    * As soon as space is available, a special "overflow" marker is put into the buffer
    * After this, everything is thrown away until a linefeed is received.

### Questions
* Some sort of special character is printed when the buffer overflows. How does it look?
* What happens if >200 chars are sent without a line feed? There is no room for the special overflow char.
* Does the linefeed itself count against the 200 bytes?

# Timing
* One byte needs 12.82 Milliseconds to transmit (roughly 78 bytes / sec).
* A full line of graphics (166) will need 2.13 Seconds, i.e. more than the printer needs to print.
* One line of regular text needs 308 Milliseconds to transmit, and 1.8 Seconds to print. Even with
  line feeds after 24 chars, the buffer will eventually overflow.

### Questions
* Can graphics lines really be sent at full speed? Note: The Arduino also has a limited buffer, and
  with 115200 bits/sec this buffer can easily overflow.